Hello, I'm Adrian Maine and this is the
Open AI podcast. Today we are joined by
Jason Wolfe, a researcher on the
alignment team to discuss the model
spec, how it shapes model behavior, and
why it's important for anyone building
or using AI tools to understand.
>> The the spec often
leads where our models actually are
today. At this point, you know, models
are pretty good at like kind of going
out and finding new interesting
examples. Models should think through
hard problems. Don't start with the
answer. Like actually think it through
first.
What did you do this weekend?
Uh what did I do? Uh
just like kid stuff. I don't remember
what.
>> Like they talked to ChatGPT or Uh yeah,
we use we use voice mode sometimes to
like ask it random like science
questions and and that kind of thing.
It's fun. You know, one time she she
snuck in there before I could dive in
like, "Is Santa Claus real?"
>> Oh, wow.
>> "Oh, sh-" And then uh yeah, the luckily
the the model uh answered in a way that
was spec compliant, which is, you know,
to recognize that maybe there's actually
a a kid who's asking this question and
you should kind of you know, uh just be
a little bit vague about your answer,
so. So, we we've talked before here
about model behavior and the term model
spec has come up numerous times. I would
love for you to unpack what that means,
model spec. Yeah, so uh the spec is our
attempt to explain
uh the high-level decisions we made
about how our models uh should behave.
Uh
And yeah, this this covers many
different aspects of
of model behavior. A few key things to
note that it it is not. Uh one, it's not
a uh a statement that our models
perfectly follow the spec today.
Uh aligning models to spec is is always
an ongoing process and this is uh you
know, something we uh we learn about as
as we deploy our models and we measure
their alignment with the spec and uh and
you know understand what users like and
don't like about these and then come
back and iterate on both the the spec
itself and
and and our models.
The spec is also
not an implementation artifact. So
I think this is maybe
a common confusion that the primary
purpose of the spec is really to explain
to to people
how it is our models are supposed to
behave where you know the these people
are you know
employees of open AI and also users,
developers, policy makers, members of
the public.
It is you know a secondary goal that our
models are are able to understand and
apply the spec. But we never
kind of
put something in the spec or change the
wording in the spec in a way where the
goal is just to have this better teach
our models. The goal is always
primarily to be understandable to
to to humans.
And lastly the the spec isn't a
it's not a complete description of the
whole system that you interact with when
you you come to chat GPT. There's lots
of
other other pieces in play there. So
there's
there's product features like like
memory.
There's
usage policy enforcement is an important
part of our overall safety strategy
which is not captured directly in the
model spec.
And there's various other components as
well.
And it's also not a fully detailed
exposition of every detail of of every
policy.
The the key thing that we try for is
that it captures all of the the most
important decisions that we've made and
that it accurately describes our
intentions even if it might not contain
every detail.
So I can understand like a document or
something that says this is the model
spec, but how does that work in
practice? So, it's a pretty long
document like maybe
100 pages or something like this.
Starts out with some
sort of high-level exposition of our
goals. Opening eyes mission is to
benefit humanity and this is the reason
we deploy our models and kind of getting
into
the the goals we have in doing that are
to to empower users and to protect
society from serious harm and how we
think about the trade-offs and then goes
into kind of a big set of policies that
actually get into the the nitty-gritty
details of how we think about these many
different aspects of model behavior. If
you if you think about it's like kind of
crazy that you can you can ask these
models literally anything and they'll
try to respond. And so the the space of
of policies you you might want to have
to cover that is kind of huge and we do
our best to try to structure this space
in in kind of a clear way and
uh uh yeah, have have policies that that
do something reasonable.
And some of these things are hard rules
that can't be overridden. A lot of it is
defaults like things like tone, style,
personality where we want to have a good
default so that users come in and get a
good experience, but we also want to
maintain steerability. So, if the the
the user
wants to wants to do something
different, that's fine. Those those
things will be overridden. And we also
have tons of examples that try to pin
down these decision boundaries of like,
"Okay, let's take a take like a
borderline case where
it's kind of unclear whether, you know,
honesty or politeness should win." And
explain what the what the decision is
here.
Um so so part of it is to sort of show
the principles in in action and help
make sure that they're interpreted in
the the way that's intended.
A kind of secondary thing is that
you know, the model style, personality,
tone is also really important and really
hard to explain in words. And so, the
examples are also a way to get some of
that nuance across of like, how do you
actually want the model to put these
principles in practice by by giving like
an ideal answer or often like a a sort
of compressed version of an ideal answer
that gets at the most critical parts.
And so, kind of both like shows the
principles in action and how the the
model should actually
uh
how it should actually talk.
Let's talk a little bit about
transparency. That's been something
that's come up a lot and how important
it is to let people see what the spec
is. Where do they actually see this? How
do they let you know what they think?
So, users can go to
model-spec.openai.com
to see the to see the latest version of
the model spec. Uh or if you search for
the the model spec on GitHub, you can
view the the source code. Uh the spec is
actually open source. So, uh people are
are free to to fork it and and uh make
make their own version if uh if they
want to.
And uh
yeah, we we've had different mechanisms
for public feedback at different points.
I think
right now the the best mechanisms that
exist are either, you know, if you're if
you're in the product and and you get an
output from model that you don't like to
to give us feedback right there directly
in the product. Um or uh yeah, you can
uh you can tweet at me, Jason Wolf, and
uh yeah, I will
I I will read your read your feedback.
Uh and we've uh um yeah, a lot of
changes in the the model spec have come
from people just sending up the sending
us their their input and thoughts. It
it's interesting because you we've gone
from just a few short years, things were
very simple, just getting the model
literally complete a sentence or fix
grammar, or whatnot. Now we're at this
point where you're able to have a lot of
these different goals of what they're
doing.
How did the model spec come about? How
did this become the OpenAI approach
towards determining this? Personally, I
was at a different company working on
conversational AI and
putting together my job talk for OpenAI
and and thinking about like what
what maybe the the future of of aligning
models looks like. And you know, at the
time, I think at least the the published
approach was this thing called
reinforcement learning from human
feedback where you collect all this data
from humans that kind of captures in
some way the policies that you want to
have. And you know, this was pretty
effective. This is what
but but
when you look at that data, it's very
hard to tell what it's actually
teaching. And it's even harder like if
you change your mind about about what
you want, it sort of uh
you know, very very difficult to to go
back and change that without like
recollecting all that data. And so it
seemed to me that you know, as models
you know
that at the time this approach is
basically we're meeting models where
they are. And as models get smarter and
smarter and smarter, like eventually the
models will be meeting us where we are.
And
you know, if you think about how would
we actually structure this in in a in a
case where where that's true, well,
probably the way we would structure uh
our our teaching to the model is
basically the way we would do it when we
teach a person. Uh we'd write some kind
of like employee handbook or something
like that would be a be a big part of
it. And so yeah, this this was like
something I included in my my job talk
that like basically I I think it it's at
some point models should learn from
something like like a spec. Um and then
you know, the story of the actual model
spec I guess starts like a few months
later in 2024 when Joanne Jang, who was
head of model behavior at the time and
John Schulman, one of the co-founders,
uh decided to get uh a model spec
project going and uh
they they wanted to you know not only
write this down in a document but also
make it public for uh kind of
transparency reasons and uh
I very quickly joined forces with them
and helped write the the original spec
and have uh kind of helped work on the
spec since.
So, help me understand kind of on a
basic level. So, you have the
specification, all these sort of the uh
the intents for what you want the model
to do, then you have the model itself.
How does it make its way from the spec
to the model? Yeah, this is a great
question and I think it's a it's the
answer is uh kind kind of complicated.
I'd say um
you know there there are some ways in
which we we uh use the spec uh
sort of more directly in in training.
Like we have this process called
deliberative alignment where we teach
especially our reasoning models to uh to
follow uh certain policies and uh some
of those policies are uh are kind of
directly derived from the language in
the model spec or vice versa. Um in
general, yeah I'd say
you know model behavior, safety
training, these things are they're super
complicated processes and we have you
know uh hundreds of researchers who are
working on these things. Um
and so often the the connection is a
little bit less direct. It's not
necessarily that you know we make a
change to the spec and that's what
drives a change in behavior. It's that
uh the we uh you know we we we make a
change in the way that we train the
models and then we make sure that the
spec accurately reflects uh our
intentions.
Um but but again the actual process of
training is kind of uh much more
complicated and nuanced than we could
possibly like put in in the model spec
itself. So, you have a spec, you have a
lot of different
things that you want the model to do,
examples you want it to do. What's the
hierarchy? How do you decide what's most
important? At sort of the heart of the
the spec is this thing we call the chain
of command.
>> Mhm. You know, coming up with a set of
goals for for the model is sort of
relatively straightforward. We want the
model to to help people and, you know,
not do unsafe things. But what gets
tricky is when these goals come into
conflict. And so the the chain of
command is really about managing
conflicts between instructions. And this
can be,
you know, between things the user said,
what what the what the developer
instructions are if this is in an API
context, and from instructions or
policies that come from
OpenAI, which are typically in the model
spec itself.
>> Mhm. And so what the chain of command
basically says is that, you know, at a
high level, you know, the model, if
there are conflicts between
instructions, the model should prefer
OpenAI instructions to developer
instructions to user instructions.
But then, you know, we don't actually
want all all of OpenAI's instructions to
be at this very high level because we
want to empower users. We want to kind
of allow them to to have intellectual
freedom and to pursue ideas
that,
you know, so long as they they don't
really come up against
what we think are really important
safety boundaries. So the chain of
command
also sets up this framework where in the
rest of the spec
each policy can be given what we call an
authority level, and this places it
somewhere
in this hierarchy.
we try to put as many of the policies as
we can at the lowest level, like below
user instructions. And so this means
that this maintains steerability. So if
the the user comes in and they want
something different, they can have that.
And we try to have as few policies at
the the sort of highest level as we can.
And these are basically all like safety
policies where we think it's actually,
it's essential that we sort of impose
these on on all users and developers to
to maintain to maintain safety. We
mentioned a great example before which
is if a child asks is Santa Claus real.
How do you decide what the model should
or should not do in a situation like
that? This is a great question. I think
it
it illustrates one of the really tricky
things about model behavior which is
that um
in this back we're focusing just on how
the model should behave
but the model often
doesn't know it doesn't have all the
context. It doesn't actually know who's
behind that screen talking or typing. It
doesn't know what that person is going
to to do with the results that come out
of the model.
And so yeah, this is a tricky case
because we we don't know if you know if
it's an adult who's
who's asking if Santa Claus is real or a
kid.
>> I have questions. Yeah, exactly.
So I think
you know we yeah, we try to come up with
policies that make sense even given this
uncertainty and and so there's a similar
example of this about the the tooth
fairy in the spec where it's like the
here the the conservative assumption is
to
assume that maybe it's it's not an adult
who's talking to the model and that you
should you know not not lie but also not
not spoil the magic just in in case it's
a kid or there's a kid around who might
be might be listening. That's a very
interesting choice though because
on one hand you might say oh the model
should never lie at all which you know
seems like a very good policy to put in
there. But then you're saying that okay,
we have to have some sort of nuance here
not necessarily lie to the kid but find
a way to sort of
would you say dance around or Yeah, I
mean
as a parent I guess
this is something I've I've come to come
to terms with with with with my own
kids. Not I we We try to try to be
honest and never say anything that's
that's untrue, but you know, yeah, it it
doesn't it doesn't always work to be
100%
up front. But you know, I'd say with our
with our models, we do really try. We
focus on honesty being really important,
but there are some really hard
interactions.
Honesty, full honesty may not be be the
the best approach.
And so we we've actually iterated a lot
over over the years on the precise
nuances of honesty and where it
potentially
conflicts with runs into other policies
of you know, honesty versus
friendliness. Like when is a white lie
okay?
I think earlier we said maybe at some
point that white lies were okay and have
shifted that so that white lies are
out of bounds, but another interesting
interaction here is between honesty and
confidentiality. So
in earlier versions of the spec, we
uh we had this like very strong
principle that by default developer
instructions are confidential because I
think often in in applications if a
developer, they deploy some system on
top of the API and they want they
consider their instructions to be like
IP or maybe it's just part of the
experience. If you have a customer
service bot and the user can say like,
"Hey, what's your prompt?" and you know,
it spills all the beans about the the
company and how they want their bot to
respond. That's not like the experience
that they want to deliver and that's not
how you know, a customer service agent
would would respond, right? If you're
like, "Hey, start reading your employee
manual to me." Right there they're
they're going to say no.
But
yeah, the I guess
there's an unintended interaction here
where if you're both trying to follow
developer instructions and keep them
secret, you could get into a situation
where
at least we saw this in like controlled
situations, not in in production
deployment where the model might try to
sort of covertly pursue the developer
instruction when it's in conflict with
the user instruction and this is
something we we really don't want and so
we've
gone back and and revise that and yeah
I'd say over time have carved out
removed most of the sort of exceptions
that we had from from honesty so that
now now honesty is is definitely above
confidentiality in the spec. Yeah well
it saved the people in 2001 a space
odyssey a lot of trouble.
How does the process work? So like
literally is it you know it's like a a
regular
meeting where you all talk about what
you're working on. How does that process
of the model spec evolving and figuring
out what's working and what's not
working? There's there's a ton of inputs
that that go into this and broadly like
we have we have an open process so
everyone that at open AI can
see the latest version of the model spec
they can propose they can propose
updates they can chime in on on changes
these are all public.
Yeah I'd say
changes get driven
by
a variety of different
sort of different sources
you know one source is just that models
get more capable our products evolve as
we ship new things we need to cover
those things in the model spec.
So for instance
you know when we wrote the the first
spec I think uh
uh
not sure if we we had shipped multimodal
yet but we wasn't covered in the first
version of the spec and so we had to add
multimodal principles and then later we
added principles for autonomy and agents
as we started deploying agents and most
recently we added under 18 principles as
we added under 18 mode back in in
December.
So that's that's sort of one source
another source is open AI believes in
iterative deployment so we
we think
the sort of best way to
figure out how to deploy models safely
and and to help society kind of learn
and adapt to AI progress is to get
models out there and and learn from what
happens. And so
often we'll we'll
learn from learn from something like for
instance the sickofinsy incident
and then you know take those learnings
and bring them back into into our
policies.
And you know we also just have
we're using using the models. We have
our you know model behavior and safety
teams that are
sort of
yeah studying the models and what users
like and and this kind of stuff and and
using these to to evolve our policies
and these are all kind of inputs that
then ultimately flow into back into the
spec. How do you handle situations where
there's maybe a disagreement between the
way the model does something and what
the intent is in the spec or what the
humans want? It depends a little bit on
on what the the problem is but um I
think
yeah so in in general the model spec is
not a claim that models are going to
perfectly follow the principles in the
spec all the time.
This is for a few reasons. One
the model spec is really we we kind of
treat it as a North Star where this is
where we align on where we're trying to
head and so that the spec often
leads where our models actually are
today. So that that's one thing and then
you know another is that that the
process of actually training models to
follow the spec is it's a
it's it's a both an art and a science.
It's incredibly complicated. You know
even though
we kind of describe many of the
principles in the spec in the same way
there's actually many different
techniques that are used for different
principles and you know
at
the models are fundamentally
non-deterministic. They they
that some randomness in the outputs they
produce, so nothing's ever going to be
uh perfectly perfectly aligned. Um
So yeah, the I guess uh the answer to
that uh comes down to like, if we we see
an output that is not what's not
expected, I guess the first question is
like uh do we do we think that output is
good or or bad? Uh you know, if the if
the output contradicts the the spec, but
we actually think the output is good,
then maybe the resolution is to go back
and change the policies of the spec. But
yeah, it yeah, in most cases it probably
means doing doing some kind of uh some
kind of training in intervention that uh
that brings the model uh
into greater alignment with the with the
spec or with our detailed policies.
And in fact, we uh um uh
we we've also been building model spec
evals, which try to evaluate how our
models are doing across the entire model
spec, and we've seen that in in fact,
over time, our models are becoming more
and more aligned to the the principles
in the spec. Like that was one of the
kind of predictions early on as the
models become smarter, they would
understand edge cases better, and that's
where the hard part is is trying to
figure that out. So, when I released
some new models, some smaller variants,
GPT-5.4 mini and GPT-5.4 nano, how well
do you see smaller models handling the
the spec? I think in general, the small
models are um
they they they've been pretty pretty
aligned, they're pretty smart, and
they're
uh uh one one interesting thing that
we've seen is that uh
you know, uh supporting what you said,
the thinking models generally follow the
spec better.
>> Mhm. Um this is uh you know, both
because they're smarter and because
uh they're trained partially with
deliberative alignment, where they
actually they're not just trained to
behave in a way that matches the
policies, they actually understand the
policies, and you know, if you can look
at their chain of thought, they're
actually thinking through like, okay, I
know this is the policy and this is the
situation, and uh it's in conflict with
this other policy, and how should should
this? And so, uh that that sort of
understanding of the policies and
intelligence naturally leads to to
better generalization and I think our
smaller models are uh pretty good at
that, too.
Chain of thought is a really interesting
way to see inside how these models are
processing information. Have you found
that that's been a big help? I help uh
write the model spec and I work on model
spec evals and spec compliance, but uh a
lot of the research that I've been doing
recently is is actually on like scheming
or or deception and there it's it's
really completely essential having the
chain of thought cuz you can see some
behavior and uh yeah, it's like the the
behavior seems like maybe fine or like
oh, maybe the model just like made a
mistake here or something and then you
know, you can look at the chain of
thought and and see that no, actually
the model's misbehaving. It's uh you
know, it's it's uh
uh being very strategic about about this
or something and and uh yeah, our models
generally, I think we've worked very
hard to not supervise the chain of
thought. This is something we we feel is
like really important and um I think
yeah, it it pays off in that models are
very honest in their chain of thought
and it's it's very helpful in in
understanding what they're doing. So,
model spec is one way to do this.
Different labs have tried different
approaches. I think in Anthropic they
use they they talk about a constitution.
Could you explain the difference and why
you know, is it just more suited towards
the temperament of the labs and why they
choose it? Yeah, I think when it comes
down to the actual behaviors uh that
that people would see in practice, I
think
these documents are are more aligned
than maybe most people would believe.
Like in most cases, they they probably
lead to the same conclusions although
there are different definitely
differences in
uh in some places and in in what's
emphasized.
Uh I think a major difference is that
these are actually just like different
kinds of documents. So, the model spec
is really again this this public
behavioral interface. It's It's main
goal is to explain to people how they
should expect the model to behave.
Um and it's sort of a secondary goal
that models can also like understand
this and apply it and and talk about it
with users and so on. Versus at least my
read of the like the
soul spec is that it's much more of an
implementation artifact. Like the the
goal of this is to specifically teach
Claude about uh
uh what what its identity is and how it
should relate to the world and to its
training process and to to Anthropic and
so on.
Um
and and so I think a lot of the the
differences uh basically come down come
down to this. Um and I think
these aren't necessarily competing
approaches. Like I I think both of these
could be valuable.
Uh but for example, you even if you you
had a model that you think is
uh deeply aligned and uh you know, has
all the the values that you want and so
on.
I I think you still want something like
the model spec so that you can then look
at that and and you can ask like, "Okay,
did this this actually
uh generalize in the way that I want? Is
it actually following the behaviors that
that kind of we've agreed that the model
uh should follow?" And like that's kind
of what the the model spec is. What
surprised you the most? The example I
gave earlier of this this interaction of
confidential and confidentiality and
honesty is a great one where yeah, we we
had worked really hard on these policies
and we thought we had kind of uh you
know, red teamed out all of the the
potential interactions and so on. And
then seeing this behavior where like the
model does something that you you really
don't want it to do and justifies it by
by leaning on the the policies that you
gave it. It was uh
uh yeah, that's definitely um yeah, an
an an experience. But How do you
determine what the scope of it's going
to be? Like I have ideas. How do you say
I'm sorry Andrew, no. I mean I think
that the scope is broadly everything. So
you know, if if if it's part of model
behavior, it might make sense to put it
in the spec. I think
and the the only constraint is sort of
our our time and and and space and we
want to make sure the spec stays
accessible and people are actually able
to to read and understand it. So I think
uh
ultimately the the cut comes down to if
something is if something seems like an
important decision that it would be
useful or valuable for
for especially the the public to
understand then then we put it in and if
not then maybe it doesn't make the cut.
Where do you think the future of this
goes? Do you think that you the model
spec is probably something that's going
to be used 5 years from now, 10 years
from now? 5 5 years is a lot in AI years
but
yeah, I I I definitely hope so. I think
um
Yeah, I think
a thought experiment that that I found
interesting is
let's say you assume that that a model
is is like human level AGI. You can ask
well, do you do you still is there still
a role for the model spec? Like at that
point can you just tell the model like
hey, be good and is that sufficient? Um
and
I think if if you you actually go
through the principles in the the spec,
I I think at least my conclusion is that
you still kind of want all the things
that are in there uh for a few different
reasons. One is that you know, even if
the model could figure this stuff out on
its own, it's still useful to be able to
set clear expectations with
you know, both internally and externally
for people to to know what to expect and
so it's like useful to uh, useful to
have uh, a lot of these these policies.
Um, another is that uh, a lot of these
are not, you know, they're not like math
problems where you can just figure out
the answer. It's like we
uh,
we've made product decisions or uh,
other difficult decisions or
and these are encoded in this back and
these are not just things that you can
uh, kind of think, you know,
you could uh, the model would be
expected to figure out on its own.
That said, I think uh,
yeah, I think what's important is
definitely going to evolve over time.
So, uh,
yeah, one thing is as
there's more uh, you know, agents are
more and more autonomous and they're out
in the world, you know, interacting with
lots of other people and agents and
transacting and and so on. Like, you
know, I think you still want all this
stuff in the spec just like, you know,
society has all these like laws, but but
ultimately, you know, what what's
important, what you think or think about
most of the time day-to-day is not like
following all the laws, right? It's more
more like things like trust and figuring
out what other what other people want
and, you know, how to find positive sum
outcomes and, you know, this kind of
stuff. So, I think I think there
there'll be, you know, maybe
yeah, the these kind of skills will
become more and more important and
I'm not sure if these are exactly spec
shaped. So, uh, I don't know quite what
that means, but I think it it's it's
interesting. Um, another
uh, maybe observation like the other
direction or prediction is that as AI
becomes
uh, more and more useful, it's going to
be more and more um,
worthwhile for people, companies, so on
to invest in their own specs. Like, uh,
you know, one you'll, you know, why why
wouldn't you want to have uh, the the
model spec for, you know, your own uh,
companies uh,
uh, bots and how they should behave and,
you know, following your your company's
mission and values and and so on and so
forth.
And I think there's different ways that
could play out, but
probably at least one way will be
uh just training models to be really
good at interpreting these specs on the
fly and uh so everyone can kind of kind
of, you know, put their put their spec
in context kind of like in agents.md or
something like that and and the model
will be really good at following it and
and probably also at uh helping update
the spec as it learns more about how
it's supposed to behave in a a certain
environment. You've mentioned before
developers and I think it's helpful for
a lot of people to understand that
they're not always interacting with a
model spec when they're at ChatGPT. I
might be using some customer service bot
with a airline or something like that
and it may be powered by
ChatGPT and OpenAI API and that seems
like it'd be a very interesting area for
other developers to start thinking about
their approach towards things that are
model spec or model spec-like. Yeah, on
the one hand it's probably useful for
developers to at least have a high-level
picture of of the model spec and how it
works so they
understand how the uh
how exactly the product they they build
on the API is going to work and what
they should, you know, what they should
put in their developer messages to make
sure they get uh get the the experience
that they want. Um I also think
yeah, it uh the spec could be a a useful
sort of source of inspiration for both
for developers building on our API or
these days really for for also for
people using coding agents who are uh
you know, writing agents.md and so on
which are are kind of like mini specs
for the project that you're working on.
And um
yeah, uh just kind of using the spec to
to understand like what what principles
have we found are useful for providing
guidance that is uh that's sort of
understandable and and actionable.
Um a couple tips I I could give there is
that uh yeah, we're we're uh
always kind of trying to balance a
couple different factors when when we're
writing this back. First and foremost,
we want everything we say to be true. We
want it to be uh actually accurately
reflect our intentions. And so, this
means not not kind of overstating or
oversimplifying or giving overly broad
guidance, really making sure to be like
precise and um
then on on the other side, we uh
we also want the guidance to be
meaningful and actionable. I guess it's
uh it's sort of very easy to uh kind of
just like gesture at some high-level
principles, but not actually saying any-
anything meaningful. And so, the art is
is trying to uh
kind of uh bring these as close together
as you can, right? Be as as uh as sort
of actionable as you can while still
being um still being precise. And
examples are are another really useful
way to do this where like sometimes a
picture is worth a thousand words,
right? Like coming up with the really
tricky case where it's kind of not
not immediately clear what what should
happen and spelling that out and how the
principle should be applied suddenly
makes the principles like uh you know,
100 times clearer.
Where did you get this interest to begin
with? We we understood some of your
career, but was this something early on
when you were a kid were you thinking
about AI? Were you thinking about the
future of this? Uh yeah, I guess I've
I've had at least a little interest in
in AI for for a long time. I I was
programming from since when I was
little. I remember implementing a a
neural network uh training package from
from scratch in in like 1997 in high
school or something like that. Um
uh but yeah, I definitely never never
expected to to see this level of of uh
sort of capability and
uh in in my lifetime, but I've just
always been fascinated by by
intelligence and brains and and how they
work. So, it's it's really cool to be
able to to work on that.
You ever read any Isaac Asimov when you
were younger? Uh yeah, I have. It's uh
it's been a while.
Um but yeah, I think there's
uh there there's actually a really
interesting parallel here where
at the top of the spec, um
let's see, we we
uh
talk about our three goals in in
deploying models being to empower users
and developers, uh protect society from
from serious harm, and uh to uh maintain
open AI's license to operate. And I
think you can look at these and put them
next to Asimov's laws, which were
basically to, you know, follow
instructions, don't harm uh don't harm
any humans, and uh don't harm yourself.
And uh you know, the these uh seem like
extremely parallel. Um
Yeah, and I think uh yeah, he he was
sort of very prescient in seeing that,
you know, okay, it's it's it's one thing
to lay out these goals, but then the the
really tricky thing is how to how to
handle conflicts. And I think in his his
story is kind of the
the the initial version of this was that
this is a strict hierarchy where it was
like one, then two, then three, and then
going through all the ways in which this
uh this might play out in ways that were
not actually good or intentional. So, so
in the spec we these three are are not
in a a strict hierarchy. Yeah. Yeah, he
also had that like a zeroth law and
whatnot the more he thought about it.
But it's it's interesting cuz you you
start off thinking, "Oh, this will be
easy. We'll just write a couple rules,
no problem." And then you're like, "Oh,
well, there's an exception here, there's
an exception there." And you have to
keep evolving it. Mhm. How much has
using AI helped you shape
the model spec? Uh yeah, it's a good
question. The the AI is uh
yeah, it's very useful and getting more
more and more useful
all the time I think
uh
you know the the spec itself is uh
still
you know human human written but I I
think uh
models really useful for you know
finding finding issues in the spec or
for you know applying the spec to new
cases and trying to understand if it's
uh doing doing what we want um at this
point you know models are are even
pretty good at like kind of going out
and finding new interesting examples or
like helping to brainstorm you know new
test cases or interactions between
different principles that you might not
have thought of and come up with with
new situations that uh then we can kind
of think through like how do we actually
want to to resolve these Have you ever
thought about asking it to write a spec
for you?
Uh I haven't but I'll have to try that.
Uh well Jason thank you very much. This
is very interesting. I'm excited to see
where this goes. Yeah thank you. This
has been fun.